---
layout: post
title:  "Basic tools, procedures, and electronics"
permalink: /02/
---

## 2019, June 27 (Thursday Section)

### Microcontrollers
Microcontrollers are ICs (integrated circuits) that act as computers. They contain microprocessors in addition to read-only memory and RAM. Both the Arduino Uno and Nano use ATMega328P, in fact the Arduino hardware is essentially just an easier way to interface with microcontrollers. Microcontrollers use mutliple communications interfaces that are industry standard including I2C and Serial over USB.


### PWM
PWM (pulse-width modulation) is a signal sending technique for digital signals. Analog signals have the capability of being in an interval of logic level high (usually 5V for Arduino) and logic level low (usually GND); however, digital signals, like the ones used in computers can only be a binary value of logic level high or logic level high. PWM allows digital signals to act more like analog signals by switching between logic level high and low in an interval (1/500ths for an Arduino board). The duration in which logic level high is present during this interval is scaled to 0 to 255 (0 = 0%, 255 = 100%).

### Electronics terminology
Current is what flows through a circuit. (A, amperes)

Voltage is the difference in electrical potential between two points in a circuit. (V, volts).

Voltage drop is the difference in voltage lost after current passing through an Ohmic device (i.e. resistor). This can be calculated by using the current from the most recent node and the resistance of the Ohmic device.

Voltage divider is a circuit which outputs a certain voltage which is determined on the ratio between the two resistors used in the circuit. Voltage divider circuits can be **OVERLOADED** which occurs when a resistor of significantly lower value is used as the load to a voltage divider circuit.

## 2019, July 2 (Monday Lab)

### Saws
