---
layout: post
title:  "Molding & Casting"
permalink: /10/
visible: true
---

## 2019, July 30 (Tuesday Section)

### Wearable Electronics, Sewing, & Soft Robotics
Actuators in wearable electronics and soft robotics have the requirement that they need to be-- **soft**; the soft actuators shown in class use a composite of stretchy material overlayed with a balloon overlayed with non-tensile material. This allows the actuator to be soft on use, but also flexible. A tutorial on how to build a soft actuator can be found [here](https://softroboticstoolkit.com/textile-actuators).

In addition, sewing machines were introduced as a method of creating soft actuators. A zig-zag stitch was used as an example in class. On the Brother sewing machine, the bobbin and main spools need to be wound up before any operation. The bobbin outputs threading on the bottom of the textile while the main spool outputs thread from the top needle. The feed dogs on the bottom of the sewing machine helps move the textile and align the sweing machine. A counterstitch needs to be made at the beginning and end of a zig-zag stitch to avoid fabric from coming undone.

### Silicone Molding
For the second part of this section, Rob introduced a process that allows for easy copying of small physical objects. This process requires finding a container that can aptly hold the object to be copied. Equal parts of Oomoo<sup>TM</sup> solution A and B need to be mixed and poured into the container to create a negative mold of the object. After the mixed solutions cure (which forms a silicone solution), a mold can be extracted from the container after an hour. This mold can then be injected with metal or plaster to form a copy of the original object.